## Date:
Wednesday, October 29th

## SOLVE: Complex Circuits

### Introduction:
We are now experts in solving series and parallel circuits, (MAKE SURE TO FOLLOW THE FLOW OF CURRENT!!). But, now we will see circuits that have both a series and parallel combined, often called complex circuits

### Learning/Reflections:

To solve for such circuits, we need to break it down into a series circuit by combining the loads of the parallel section of the circuit. You can identify this if the total current gets split and then reconnected together later on. 

**YOU ALWAYS SOLVE FROM THE RIGHT OF THE CIRCUIT FIRST**

To find the total resistance from the load, you must use the parallel circuit rule which is:

$R_t = (R_1^{-1} + R_2^{-1})^{-1}$


Once that load's resistance is found, we will label it with **ALL** numbers of the loads which you added. So if you added $R_2, and $R_3. The total load which you just found will be $R_23.


Now you "eliminated" the parrallel part of the circuit. All that remains are the loads which belong to the series. Simply use the series rule and add up all the resistance we have found:

$R_t = R_1 + R_2 + R_3$

You now have total resistance for the complex circuit!

To solve for other values, we need another given to be provided. Let's say we got the total voltage to be 60V so $V_t = 60 V$

Let's say we want to solve for $V_2$. Since, it is part of the parallel circuit, the voltage for $V_1$ and $V_2$ will remain the same. Therefore, we simply need to find the value for $V_23 through the series circuit we created. 

Since the series circuit has the same current, we can find it through using the total voltage (60V) and total resistance (Ohm's law). That is the same as $I_23$, so we can employ Ohm's law again to find voltage because the resistance value of $V_23$ is already been given.


The math work would look like the following:

$$
I_t = \frac{V_t}{R_t}
$$

$$
I_t = I_{23}
$$

$$
V_{23} = I_{23} \cdot R_{23}
$$

##### Found the voltage for V2 and V3 (both parts of the parallel section)

In a parallel circuit, the voltage across each branch is the same. Therefore:

$$
V_{23} = V_2
$$

$$
V_{23} = V_3
$$

### Conclusion:
I am now a wizard in solving problems that involve parralel circuits, though more practice is most likely in order :)
