## Date:
Tuesday, October 28th

## SOLVE: Series and Parallel Circuits

### Introduction:
Today, we learned how to solve for series and parallel circuits. From the rules we learned today, we can solve for total current, resistance, and voltage. We can also solve for voltages/currents at specific places within our circuit as it can vary due to resistance experienced (it depends on type of circuit however).

### Learning/Reflections:

**Series Circuits** -> when there is a singular path of current 

**Parallel Circuits** -> when there are multiple paths of currents and each path connects directly to the cathode and anode of the power source *DIRECTLY*. 


#### Series circuits have the following rules:

- V<sub>t</sub> = V<sub>1</sub> + V<sub>2</sub> + V<sub>3</sub> ... 

Basically, the individual voltages are **NOT** the same, so to find total, you must add them up.

- I<sub>t</sub> = I<sub>1</sub> = I<sub>2</sub> = I<sub>3</sub> ...

Since there is only one pathway for current to flow, it's amount stays the same regardless of where the current value is situated. 

- R<sub>t</sub> = R<sub>1</sub> + R<sub>2</sub> + R<sub>3</sub> ...

The resistance is different based on the different loads within the circuit, so to find total, you need to add them all up. 

#### Parallel circuits have the following rules:

- V<sub>t</sub> = V<sub>1</sub> = V<sub>2</sub> = V<sub>3</sub>

The voltage will always be the same because each component is directly connected to the postive and negative terimal of the power source. 

- I<sub>t</sub> = I<sub>1</sub> + I<sub>2</sub> + I<sub>3</sub>

Since there is multiple paths for current to flow, the current value can differ based on the specific location of said path. 

- $R_t = (R_1^{-1} + R_2^{-1} + R_3^{-1})^{-1}$

This is the same as if the resistance values were denominators to a fraction that is has a 1 numerator. This expression just makes it easier because you do not have to solve for $V_t. The equation spits it out for you. 

### Conclusion:
In conclusion, I learned how to find the totals for resistance, current, and voltage given a series or parrallel circuit. It is based on rules which have been established in the form of equations. 
