## Date:
Monday, November 3rd

## Solving a complex circuit - How to do it the best!

### Introduction:
Today, we solved the challenging problem of the complex circuit. Mr.C dropped some valuable insight on the topic.

### Learning/Reflections:
Before starting on the mathwork, we should begin by finding the path of current. Oftentimes, the schematics of circuits won't be a straight line but might be curved, so to identify the different parts of the complex circuit as series or parallel can only be done through seeing if the current is split up (parrallel) or remains the same throughout (series). 


Once you have identified which parts of the circuit are series/parallel, simplify the diagram by combining resistors for parallel circuits. Always start from the right end and move towards the left. 

By the end of your work, you should have a series circuit with one resistor that is a combination of all other resistors. From this, you can solve for current, voltage, or resistance based on what values have been given. Go **backwards** which is to say, start from the most simplified diagram (series) and move to the mroe complex sketches as you solve for different values. 


Remember the rules for parallel and series circuit because sometimes a value can be shared with many different positions. For example, the current will stay the same in series, and the voltage will stay the same in parallel circuit.

### Conclusion:
In conclusion, I learned the most fool-proof method of solving complex circuits!
