## Date:
Wednesday, November 26

## Soldering on perf board

### Introduction:
Today, we learned how to solder on a perf board which has holes with copper to slide components in. 
### Learning/Reflections:

I learned what is to be expected of my soldering work when I complete it:

- it should be shiny
- it should have a cone shape
- there should be NO BLOB of solder (this means too much solder was applied)

The same concepts of using the soldering iron to heat up the 2 things that we are joining was used here. 

After a quick demo showing us the expectations, we were tasked with cutting the insluation of some wire and placing it on a perf board for soldering.

Once that was done, I decided to start practicing soldering. My first outcome was **TERRIBLE**. The solder did not apply properly creating a loose joint, meaning the connection wasn't even there. 

This happened because of a cold soldering iron which led to the solder not properly heating up and fusing with the connection. Once I realized this, I waited a bit more (I only waited like 30 secs - 1 minute before) and the solder melted perfectly!

Another mistake I made which led to my solder becoming chipped and "cracky" on one end was not leaving the solder on the joint for a bit more after applying the solder. It needs this time to fully melt and fuse, but I didn't give it that time. 

Once I realized this, I kept the solder for a bit longer after applying the solder, and I removed the solder after a good amount is applied (so I don't add more than needed, **LESS IS MORE!!!**) 

### Conclusion:
In conclusion, I became much better at soldering and learned how to use perf boards to do this!
