### Date: 
Wednesday, September 10th

## The anatomy of a computer:

### Introduction:

Today's lesson was an introduction of the different components a computer possesses. In total, there are about 7 components that make up a computer. These components are:

- Case
- Motherboard
- RAM (Random Access Memory)
- CPU (Central Processing Unit)
- GPU (Graphical Processing Unit)
- PSU (Power Supply Unit)
- Cooling Fan/System

## Learning/Reflection:

A case is used to protect all components from damage which a person might inflict. It also holds all the components together, adding portability. Bringing a computer from one side of the room to another would be much more difficult if its components are exposed and had to be moved individually, compared to holding them within the confines of a case. The motherboard is used to link all components together, so they can operate the computer successfully. Without it, there would be no use for any of the components. RAM is used to store volatile memory. It is directly connected to the motherboard, so it is much faster than a typical storage unit, such as SSDs or HDDs. The CPU is the "brain" of the computer. It completes different tasks required to run computer programs. CPUs could also have integrated graphics, which means they are equipped to render computer graphics (stuff the user would see). On the other hand, the GPU is a standalone component whose sole job is to render said computer graphics. All computers also need power in order to run. The PSU or Power Supply Unit supplies the machine with the necessary power needed to run it. Oftentimes, the CPU will overheat, causing damage to its structure. To avoid this, a cooling fan and system are put into place, which regulate the temperature of a CPU.

## Conclusion:
One question that lingers in my mind is... **What is the difference between how RAM and HDD/SSDs store information? How does that contribute to the volitity of its data**

